book marketing is kind of a weird
subject how do you take this thing that
you've put your heart and your soul into
and then you put it out into the world
and start trying to convince them to
actually buy it and read it I'm facing
down this issue right now my next book
the shithead is coming out September
19th and I've started this process of
book marketing this very strange and
terrible process of book marketing now
there's all kinds of advice out there
about book marketing and I am uniquely
positioned to actually talk about this
now normally this is where I say I'm the
CEO of story grid where we help writers
build the skills write a book and leave
a legacy and that is what we do here at
story grid but something you probably
don't know about me is I am one of the
top book marketers in the world I've
been a book marketing consultant for
over 14 years I've launched dozens of
books to the New York Times Wall Street
Journal USA Today and other bestseller
list at one point I had five clients on
the New York Times bestseller list at
the same time I'm the author of The
Perennial best-selling book about book
marketing titled your first 1,000 copies
and I'm still a very highly sought after
consultant and my feed to run a book
launch starts at
$60,000 so this is what I do this is
what I'm very good at very well known
for and so when we talk about book
marketing it's a subject that I have
some experience on now in this video I'm
going to share with you the one strategy
that is the overarching Strate strategy
that every author should take when it
comes to their book marketing so whether
you're a firsttime author with no
platform at all or you're a top
bestselling author this is the same
strategy you have to have for your book
the second thing I'm going to tell you
is the mindset you have to have in order
to have a successful book launch and
book marketing campaign that if you
don't have this mindset you're dead in
the water nothing's going to work it's
going to Doom your book for to failure
from the very beginning now the first
thing you need to know is that most
books that sell for a really long time
start out small they do not come out
with a bang in fact one of the things I
hate the most about the book industry
and book Marketing in general is the New
York Times bestseller list and all of
the other bestseller list because they
focused on a single week of sales there
are so many books that are New York
Times bestelling books and other
bestselling books and they maybe sold
10,000 copies 15,000 copies when they
first came out and then they literally
never sold another thousand copies for
the rest of the life of the book I also
know books that have sold literally
millions of copies and they've never hit
any of the bestseller list because they
didn't sell a ton of copies in a single
week and so these bestseller lists are
very very skewed towards books that
happen to sell a lot in one week but may
not necessarily ever sell for a long
period of time and a lot of these books
that you see come out with a bang and
have like a huge first week they fall
off a cliff and they never actually sell
a lot of copies of the book and I love
working on books and I aspire to write
books that don't just sell the first
week that they come out because I
convinced a bunch of people to buy a
copy but continue to sell year after
year after year in fact quick story here
about this uh I once was behind the
scenes on a book launch where the author
actually hired people on Craigslist in
cities all over the country to go in and
buy every copy of his book off the shelf
in all of the Barnes & Noble and other
bookstores that it was in and sure
enough that helped put him on the New
York Times bestseller list for the first
week and I went back and checked a year
after the book had come out and it
literally had not sold another 500
copies after that first week it was out
it's so easy to gain the system that
first week especially if you're rich and
have a lot of money or happen to be a
somewhat famous person but when you
think about a book that's actually
successful books tend to take a long
time to find an audience there is a long
lag time for many many popular books in
fact many bestseller books that have
lasted decades and decades and decades
they took a long time to find an
audience the book The War of art the
first year that it came out only sold
about 9,000 copies but then the year
after that it sold more copies then the
year after that it sold more copies and
then now here we are decades in the
future and the book still sells and
sells and sells so books tend to have a
long lag time as far as finding an
audience and they're also just harder to
consume so I can watch a movie in 2
hours I can listen to a new album for my
favorite musician in about an hour but
books take a long time to consume and so
because of that they just often take a
long time to find Their audience and
start selling and so what I tell people
is when your book comes out you
shouldn't worry so much about the first
week or even the first month the real
launch window is the first two years and
so when you're coming out with a book
don't worry about whether or not the
book does amazing when it first comes
out we're focused on we're going to be
promoting this book for two years I'm
going to get in to how what that looks
in just a minute the other thing you
have to understand is that books are
very quietly selling lots and lots of
copies so there are thousands of books
that are selling thousands of copies a
month and you've never heard of them
this is what's amazing about books what
people don't understand about the book
industry and how they move through our
culture is that lots and lots of people
buy lots and lots of books that you've
never heard of and so don't worry about
your book becoming some International
bestseller to make it successful you can
quietly find your own audience over a
long period of time and often that's the
best way to do it okay so let's get into
this one overarching strategy I promised
to share that every author should apply
to their book if they want it to be
successful so I was talking to an author
this week and her book came out last
year and we were just kind of riffing we
we were having a call about something
else and just of course started talking
about our books being out and she was
telling me about how her first book was
traditionally published and it went
pretty well but because her audience
wasn't huge she couldn't find a good
traditional publisher for her new book
so she ended up just self-publishing it
and she said to me a big part of why she
decided just to go ahead and self
publish the book instead of keep banging
on the doors of traditional publishing
is she wanted to just focus on finding
people that she knew would love her book
and then share it with them first now
there are a ton of tactics that can go
into book marketing if you go on Google
right now and just start searching
around for book marketing tactics and
book marketing ideas you'll find lists
of like literally a 100 different things
you can do now most of the tactics out
there are just kind of bullshit a few of
them are pretty good I know this because
I've been doing this for so long but the
guiding principle for all good book
marketing is you finding the person that
you think will like your book and then
just trying to get them to read it and
give it a shot now inside of story grid
we have this idea of Sam the single
audience member the person you're
writing this book for and this is a
really important part of writing your
book is making sure you have one person
you're writing the book for it makes
everything about writing your book so so
much easier I talk a lot about this in
other videos on this channel so I'm not
going to go deep into that right now but
this idea of you're writing the book for
one person so when it comes time to
Market your book you should be looking
for that one person who are those people
that you know will love your book those
are the people you're trying to share
your story with your book with so with
my book the shithead I'm literally going
back through everybody I've met all the
contacts I've had all the friends I have
everybody I know in my life and I'm
going through and I'm reaching out to
them and I'm asking them if they'd like
to read a copy of my new book and I'm
making sure that I'm asking people that
I know will love my book the deeper that
you get into this whole book publishing
book marketing world you realize pretty
quickly it's often easier to get
somebody to buy a copy of your book than
actually read it like just think about
it yourself let's say that you hate
fantasy and you have no interest in
Reading fantasy books and then I bring a
450 page fantasy novel to you and I say
you have two choices you can either buy
this book for me for $30 or you can read
it for free and if you don't like
fantasy books you'll say I'll give you
the $30 so I don't have to read it and
so getting somebody to actually commit
the time and effort and attention to
read your book is often harder than
getting them to buy a copy of the book
and again understand books take a long
time to find an audience the only way
you can truly sell a million copies of a
book there are no direct marketing ways
to do that it all comes down to Word of
Mouth it comes down to people actually
reading your book and then telling other
people to buy a copy so the one strategy
that encapsulates all the good book
marketing advice and tactics that you're
ever going to hear is you're trying to
find people that you know will love your
book and then trying to get them to read
a copy I promise you if they read a copy
and they tell other people you'll start
selling lots and lots of copies of your
book this is what I've seen work over
and over and over and so this is what
I'm doing for my book the shithead I'm
trying to identify people that I think
will like the book and that I'm trying
to get them to read the book now again
this encapsulates all good book
marketing tactics whether you have a
huge email list of fans that you know
love your writing well you already know
they love your writing so you're just
trying to get them to get a copy of your
book and read it so this applies to
getting interviewed on podcast or buying
advertising or speaking at conferences
or social media all you're trying to do
is find people that you think will like
your book and try to get them to give
your book a try and the thing I want you
to see especially if you're starting out
and you haven't done a lot of this is
just do it one person at a time even me
somebody that's been doing this for a
very long time does have an email list
I'm starting by just getting some people
that I know one at a time that I think
will love my book and I'm just sending
them a copy so they'll give it a rate so
that's the one strategy that
encapsulates all book marketing advice
you'll hear that actually works is
you're just trying to find people that
you think will actually like your book
and try to convince them to give it a
try now I also promised there was a
mindset that you had to have and this
came from a time when I was speaking at
a workshop and i' had been doing book
marketing for a long time at this point
and whenever I did workshops or talks or
anything people would ask me questions
and it had been years since somebody had
asked me a question that actually
stumped me because I've been doing it
for so long and I was an expert but in
this particular talk somebody raised
their hand and they asked me the
question they said looking back over all
of the authors you've worked with all
the books you've worked with all the
campaigns you've run is there one
through line one thread through all of
them that all of the successful authors
they did this one thing and it had the
biggest impact towards their success now
this stumped me in real time I actually
had to say you know what I can't think
of anything and had to move on but it
stuck with me it stuck in my head for
weeks I was thinking like what is it
what's that one thing right I've worked
with authors that didn't have big email
list or didn't have big social media
followings or didn't have big influencer
connections to help promote their book
and yet their book found success so what
is the through line and then it hit me
and it was something I wasn't expecting
to to think of all of the authors that
found success whether they were
firsttime authors or well-established
authors or Indie authors or
traditionally published authors none of
that mattered what it came down to is
the author actually belied it was a good
thing for somebody to spend their time
and money on their book and read it that
the reader would be better off after
having done that than before you have to
actually believe that your book is good
and that people should read it otherwise
no tactics no strategy nothing is
actually going to help you because when
it comes time to asking people to read
your book and then tell you what they
think and leave a review and all of
those things you'll pull back and you
won't actually do it so I tell people
whether your thing is meditation or
prayer or journaling or whatever it
takes you've got to get to the point
with your book that you actually believe
it's great and that people should read
it and their life would be better off if
they did read it in fact a couple months
ago I was talking to a guy and we were
he's been around story grid for a long
time and been following us for a long
time and we were on a zoom call and he
looked at me and he kind of paused he
goes Tim is the shitthe head good and I
looked at him and I was like yeah it's
really good and he's like okay man I
can't wait to read it so now when I'm in
this space where I'm actually reaching
out to people old friends old contacts
current friends and current contacts and
I'm asking them if if I send them a copy
of my book will they read it I know that
it's good for them to read it I'm
reaching out to people that I really
truly think will like my book and I
actually believe their life will be
better they will be a better person at
the end of reading my book than at the
beginning if you don't believe this
about your book you might as well not
even publish it your book's going to be
dead in the water before it even comes
out if you are not sure that people
should read your book you got to rethink
this you got to figure out why you're
doing what you're doing why you're
publishing the book in the first place
if you don't think it's ready for people
to actually read it so those are the two
big things the big strategy is find
people that you think will love your
book and invite them to read a copy and
the big mindset is actually believing
that if people read your book it is good
for them and you it's easy for you to
ask them to read a copy of your book now
if you're not sure about that with your
book that's why we're here with story
grid is to help you write a book you can
truly be proud of and the first place
you have to start is by writing great
scenes and so I've got a great gift for
you if you go to story grid.com
checklist I'm going to give you our 13o
checklist on how to write crate scenes
this is what we use in all of our
workshops and all our training to make
sure that our students are leveling up
their scene writing so I want to give
you that right now go to story grid.com
checklist also if this video was helpful
to you at all make sure you subscribe to
the channel click like to make sure you
don't miss any future videos that we
come out with also go to story grid.com
Che check out all the free resources we
have there make sure you sign up for the
newsletter so you don't miss anything
that we're doing in the story grid
universe but as always thanks for being
a writer thanks for being a part of our
community here at story grid and I'll
see you next time